Deputy Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Dr. Eric Bossman Asare has assured ghanaians that it will deliver very fair elections at all levels.

Dr. Bossman Asare in an interview gave assurance that transparent elections would be conducted in the country to ensure that those that are voted for are those who get the lead.

His assurance comes days after President Akuffo Addo swore in the Chairperson, Jean Adukwei Mensa and her two deputies and a corporate legal practitioner, Adwoa Asuama Abrefa who is a member of the Commission.

Dr. Bossman Asare said election is not about theory but practical.

He said elections will be conducted in such a way that what people will choose will at the end of the day become those who will lead the country at the district, parliamentary and Presidential levels.

Nana Asante Bediatuo, the Secretary to the President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has flatly denied claims by an unnamed woman in an audio that has gone viral, that he held a meeting with her and others in a bid to sell the Art Centre, a public property.
According to him, no such meeting has taken place between him and anyone on the subject matter.
Mr. Asante Bediatuo has therefore asked the public to disregard the said allegation and treat it with “the contempt it deserves.”
He said he’s also not aware of any plans to sell the Art Centre, and did not have the authority to lead such an action if it was true.
An unknown woman in an audio circulating on social media claims to have picked some information that the President had plans to sell the Art Centre.
She is also heard saying she proceeded to meet with Mr. Asante Bediatuo in the company of some chiefs in a bid to have the plans changed, but Mr. Bediatuo disrespected them.
The woman, whose narrarion in the 2 minutes 5 seconds audio did not seem coherent, erroneously referred to Asante Bediatuo as the President’s spokesman.
She also claimed that Mr. Bediatuo had told them that the Art Centre was going for 500 million, but did not specify whether the said amount was in cedis or dollars.
Mr. Bediatuo has rejected outrightly all the claims by the unidentified woman. According to him, those allegations are “outright and blatant lies.”
“I wish to put on record that I have never met this unnamed, unidentified woman or the elders and the chiefs she claims she brought to meet with me. It is interesting to note that she does not put out any details of the alleged meeting.”
“She does not state the date of the meeting, the place where the meeting took place, and the names of the elders and chiefs who accompanied her to the alleged meeting. That is because the so-called meeting never took place, or at least, not with me. As is public knowledge, I am the Secretary to the President and not the President’s spokesperson.”
Mr. Asante Bediatuo further insisted the said audio was created to cause disaffection for him as a senior government official.
“Ordinarily, I will not dignify such baseless allegations with a response to give it oxygen in the media space. However, such false allegations in the manner presented can be believed by some people.”
“I, therefore, consider it necessary to put out this statement because the allegations made in the audio recording have no iota of truth, are pure fabrications, and are malicious, with the sole aim of courting public disaffection for me as a senior official of this government.”

The Minerals Commission has begun investigations into the mining accident that occurred on Wednesday, May 26, 2021, at Denkyira Breman/Brofoyedu in the Upper Denkyira West District of the Central Region.
Dozens of miners are reported trapped in the illegal mining pit.
At least three of the people pulled out of the wreckage have been confirmed dead, including a victim believed to be 10 years old.
Unconfirmed reports suggest that many of the victims are not residents of the community as none of the residents could identify any of the deceased.
The Minerals Commission in a statement indicated that it visited the site around 11:00 a.m on the day of the incident, and that its Inspectorate Division has commenced full investigations into it.
According to the Commission, preliminary investigations indicate that the small-scale miners were working illegally at the site which falls within the prospecting license of Adio-Mabas Ghana Limited.
This incident comes at a time when government has renewed the fight against all forms of illegal small-scale mining in the country.
A similar incident occurred in October 2020 where five persons were reported dead after they were trapped in a mining pit in the same district.
15 others who were also trapped in the cave sustained varied injuries after the incident.
Also, in November 2020, an illegal small-scale mining pit in the outskirts of Ayanfuri collapsed and trapped eight persons between the ages of 24 and 35 years.
A life was lost on May 17, 2021 after an underground mining pit which is part of the concession of Anglogold Ashanti Obuasi Mine, caved in and trapped some workers.
A former Director-General of the Ghana Health Service, Professor Agyemang Badu Akosa, has hit hard at members of the Komfo Anokye Chapter of the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GAMLS) who are protesting the posting of the two hematologists to the Laboratory Service Department of the hospital.
Members of the Chapter have declared an indefinite strike starting Thursday, 27th May, 2021, over the move, after they started with a one-week sit-down strike.
They have vowed to call off the strike only if the two are withdrawn from the hospital’s laboratory unit.
But Prof. Akosa on Citi TV’s Point of View said the strike is unfounded, given that hematologists are equally qualified to work in laboratories.
“The problem we have in this country sadly is that our medical laboratory scientists do not appreciate their limitation. Two hematologists- where should they go and practice? Hematologists are doctors who have trained in blood diseases. So far as the laboratory space has different professionals, the headship can be based on competence, so we cannot sit here and say that the laboratory should be for laboratory scientists alone.
“People are being transferred to the laboratory space and you [laboratory scientists] are driving them away and because of that, there is a national strike. Why are we just splitting heads because medical laboratory scientists believe the laboratory space is for them. It is not for them,” Mr. Akosa insisted.
The pathologist believes it is problematic for the Allied Health Professional Council to dictate or regulate the functions of physicians and where they should operate from as it was seeking to do with the two hematologists.
“The Allied Health Professional Council regulates Allied Health Professionals, and the list is clearly stated in the schedule of Act 857 and it lists those who are allied health professionals – you must be a lab technician, you must be a medical laboratory technologist or a medical laboratory scientist. These are allied health professionals. As a medical doctor, I am not an allied health professional so under no circumstance can that regulatory agency regulate my practice. This is the mistake that unfortunately, the allied health professionals are making.”
The flagbearer of the National Democratic Congress (NDC) in the 2020 polls, Mr. John Dramani Mahama has assured Ghanaians that he won’t compromise the nation’s stability.
Mr. Mahama says even though he is disappointed by the verdict of the apex court on the Election Petition, he is “legally bound” to accept it.
He assured that neither himself nor the NDC will do anything against the collective interest of the nation.
According to him, in all his public service, he has always put the interest of Ghana first in every decision he has taken.
“We will be law-abiding and do nothing to compromise the stability of the country. We will however continue to be the voice of the voiceless and will not be distracted demanding justice and fairness at all times.”
“Neither will we surrender nor fail to champion the rights of all our people to enjoy the fundamental freedoms guaranteed under our constitution.”
Mr. Mahama urged his supporters not to give up on their dreams for the party to come to power.
“The NDC will always remain the party of the people. The party was established to empower the people of Ghana to be architects of our own destiny. We blazed the trail for participatory democracy. And I am confident that out of the ashes of this legal setback, we will mobilize and rekindle the struggle for a better democratic Ghana.”
Mr. Mahama also took a swipe at the Supreme Court saying it has set a “dangerous precedence” by not allowing the Chairperson of the Electoral Commission to testify during the trial.
He thus described it as an “embarrassing stain” on the country’s judicial and electoral systems as well as a major source of worry to well-meaning Ghanaians.
“This is the clear stab in the heart of accountability to the sovereignty of the people of Ghana. Whatever the reasons for not allowing Mrs. Mensa to testify or answer questions, it leaves an embarrassing stain not only on our justice delivery system but also our nation’s electoral system”, a disturbed Mahama lamented.

The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, on Wednesday, 26th May, 2021, cut the sod for the first phase of construction works to begin on the Law Village of the Ghana Law School.
The ceremony took place at the Academic Enclave near the University of Ghana Business School.
With the Ghana School of Law being the nation’s sole institution responsible for professional legal education, and for training eligible persons as lawyers and integrating them into the legal system, President Akufo-Addo expressed his delight about the project taking place under his Presidency. “I have been reliably informed that 1,000 students were admitted during the 2020/2021 academic year, a development which led to the Acting Director and Management of the School taking a cue from the double-track system initiated in our Senior High Schools, to introduce a triple-track system,” he said.
The President continued, “with the 2021/2022 academic year fast approaching, the school is, again, faced with limited and overstretched facilities, hence the added importance of this project”.
The entire Law Village Project, according to the President, will cost about US$55 million, with Phase One of the project complementing the facilities of the Accra Main Campus located at Makola, at a cost of US$4 million). “Once completed, the Law Village will boast of an additional seating capacity of one thousand five hundred (1,500) seats, a number of lecture halls, a well-resourced library, residential facilities, offices, amongst others,” he added.
The President was expectant that the completion of the Law Village will expand access to legal education, without compromising on its quality, and, ultimately, assist in the administration of justice throughout the country.
“As many more lawyers are trained, it is my hope that, indeed, many more of them will join the public sector to enhance the quality of legal service delivery in the sector. I assure all of you that this project is the beginning of greater things to come for the Ghana School of Law. Government’s commitment to leaving a lasting legacy in professional legal education in Ghana is absolute,” he added.

The Speaker of Parliament, Alban S.K Bagbin, has assured the Ghanaian business community that Parliament remains committed to extensively engaging them on proposed amendments to laws that stifle the growth of local businesses.
He said Parliament will directly engage them on the drafting of amendments to laws that affect their operations in order to ensure that their concerns are fully addressed.
The Speaker gave the assurance at a meeting with the Private Enterprises Federation (PEF) in Parliament on Tuesday.
He was addressing concerns raised by the Federation on some compelling issues affecting the growth of the private sector, including laws relating to taxes.
“One of the things I want to do is to engage civil society to present drafts on the proposed amendments that will better serve the business community.
“I will get the relevant committees to look at the specific laws in question and work with you to address the concerns,” he said.
The President of PEF, Nana Osei Bonsu, who led the delegation, said it was time for the legislature to create a periodic dialogue platform where issues affecting the private sector could be discussed with members of the House.
He said issues affecting the private sector, including shortcomings in the tax collection system and general misunderstanding of the tax laws in the business community, must be addressed by Parliament.

The National Democratic Congress (NDC) Member of Parliament (MP) for Nkwanta-North in the Oti Region, Mr. John Oti Bless, has cut the sod for the construction of a six-unit classroom block, a staff common room and a library for the Tinjase D/A Junior High School (JHS).
The MP cut the sod last Saturday, May 23, for work to begin on the GH¢800,000 projects.
The projects are being funded through the MP’s share of the District Assemblies Common Fund (DACF).
Work is expected to be completed in 10 months.
Improve learning
Mr. Bless told the Daily Graphic in an interview that the projects were meant to facilitate teaching and learning in the school.
“When completed, these facilities will help to decongest the high number of pupils in the classrooms, promote reading culture among pupils and also provide comfort for teachers who sit under trees to mark scripts,” he said.
The MP urged chiefs and opinion leaders in the area to support initiatives that would facilitate teaching and learning in schools.
He said when all stakeholders contribute their quota to improve teaching and learning environment in schools, pupils would perform better.
Appreciation
The Chief of Tinjase, Ubor Mamunin II, lauded Mr. Bless for initiating the school projects.
Additionally, he expressed appreciation to the MP for understanding a number of infrastructure projects in the town.
The chief enumerated a number of infrastructure projects the MP carried out in the area, including rural electrification, mechanized boreholes, CHPS compounds, school buildings, and a communication tower.
He said such projects have given Tinjase town and surrounding communities a facelift.

Following the drastic surge of Covid-19 cases in India this month, some Ghanaians, have in a gesture of brotherliness, provided a donation of 150 medical grade oxygen concentrators to needy hospitals in that country.
The donation will be shared among 30 health facilities in rural areas across 14 different states/regions.
Additionally, seven units of 10-litre-oxygen concentrators are being presented by the Government of Ghana to India’s Ministry of External Affairs, through the Ghana High Commission in New Delhi. This gesture makes Ghana the first African country to have undertaken such an initiative.
An oxygen concentrator is a device that concentrates the oxygen from a gas supply by selectively removing nitrogen to supply an oxygen-enriched gas stream.
Medical oxygen becomes essential for treatment of severe COVID-19 patients.
Mr. Amar Deep S. Hari, the Chief Executive Officer of IPMC, who commissioned the items, on a virtual platform for distribution from India’s famous mosque, Dargah Nizamuddin in New Delhi, India, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for this assistance.
“This gesture is mainly to show that Ghanaians from Africa are thinking of our Indian brothers and sisters and keeping their well being in our prayers,” he said.
Prior to the second wave of COVID-19, Ghana had become one of the first recipients of the Indian manufactured COVID-19 vaccines under WHO’s Covax program.
Having benefitted from such a facility, the present initiative serves as a gesture of gratitude from Ghanaians towards India.
Members of the Indian Community in Ghana have lauded the prompt offer of help, which came from Ghanaians of diverse backgrounds.
“Whether teachers, doctors, students, drivers, businessmen and women or government employees – each of them contributed to the best of their abilities,” one of them told the Ghana News Agency.
“It shows the deep roots of friendship that exists between the two communities since independence,” he said.
Some expatriates of other countries in Ghana also participated in the noble cause.
President Nana Akufo-Addo has already pledged the services of Ghanaian doctors and nurses to India should they be needed at any time.
Dr. Samuel Thomas, an India physician, from a community hospital of Tamil Nadu State, expressed his gratitude to Ghanaians for the timely donation, which according to him, would go a long way in treating critically ill patients.
Dr. Nikhil Sharma from the District hospital Himachal Pradesh, stated: “Some angels from Africa are assisting to save lives in far off India and we will ever remain grateful to them for this gesture.”
His hospital has benefitted from 10 units of the Oxygen concentrators.
Mr. Frank Adu Jnr, a former Managing Director of CalBank Limited, told the GNA that Ghanaians were deeply touched by the plight of their siblings, hence their decision to support them with oxygen concentrators.
He said the COVID-19 catastrophe knew no boundaries, and urged Ghanaians to continue to abide by the safety protocols to prevent another wave of the disease in the country.
Meanwhile, a CNN report indicates that India reported 196,427 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, May 25, the lowest single-day rise in cases since April 14, 2021.
This marks a decline from the first week of May when the country was reporting more than 300,000 cases daily. It has also reported 3,511 fatalities, on Tuesday, the lowest single-day death toll since May 4,2021.
On Monday, India became the third country to top 300,000 deaths from the virus, after Brazil and the United States. India has reported a total of 26,948,874 Covid-18 cases, including 307,231 deaths. There are 2,586,782 confirmed active cases in the country, according to the health ministry

A man believed to be in his 30s has shot himself dead after he shot his girlfriend, Melody Owusu, who he allegedly caught with another man.
The incident happened at Alavanyo Wududi in the Hohoe Municipality of the Volta Region in the early hours of Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
Residents say, Sampson Ataafi suspected the lady of cheating, and trailed her new boyfriend at about 1:00 am on Tuesday, May 25.
Witnesses say, Sampson Ataafi, upon realizing that his girlfriend was in the new boyfriend’s room, opened fire on the lady through a trap door. After firing the gun, with the aim of killing the lady, Sampson shot himself and died in the process, thinking the lady had been killed.
Melody Owusu was rushed to Margret Marquart Catholic Hospital in Kpando for medical attention.
Kofi George, a resident who narrated the incident to Citi News said: 
“I was told, the gentleman traced the girlfriend to the new boyfriend’s room. So he shot the girl through the trap door, but fortunately, the girl survived, but the bullet hit her on the left breast. The man thought the lady was dead, so he then reloaded the gun and shot himself, dying instantly.” This is happening few months after a 53-year-old man was shot and killed in the same community during a disagreement over palm wine.
Similar stories have also been reported in the early part of 2021.
In March, residents of Ho were also thrown into a state of shock after a lady believed to be in her mid-twenties was found dead in a hotel room.
Reports indicated that Jay Dordorye, [26 years] the boyfriend of the deceased, reportedly inflicted knife wounds on Harriet Kafui Ahiati (deceased) and attempted to commit suicide.
26-year-old Jay Dordoye is said to have slit his girlfriend’s throat and tried hanging himself after the incident. After failing in hanging himself, he resorted to stabbing himself multiple times.
Later in April, one Prince Charles Dedjoe, a businessman, suspected of killing his wife was also arrested by the police.
The deceased’s father reported to police that a day before his daughter’s demise, she complained to him that she was severely assaulted by her husband, and that had led to the death of her daughter.


The Minority Leader, Haruna Iddrisu, has cautioned Deputy Minister nominees to desist from holding themselves as if they have been approved to function.
According to him, the practice is illegal and unwarranted.
The Appointments Committee of Parliament is set to commence vetting of the nominees on June 2, 2021, but even before the process starts, the Minority Leader insists some nominees are already engaging in activities pre-empting the work of the committee.
Mr. Haruna Iddrisu spoke on the floor of Parliament following the resumption of its second meeting of the first session of the 8th Parliament of the Fourth Republic.
He, therefore, charged the nominees to respect the provisions of the Constitution regarding their nomination and subsequent approval or rejection by the House.
“There are many of them who are in a hurry to assume office even while Parliament has not even considered their nomination. May I, Mr. Speaker, serve a warning that in accordance with the ruling J.H. Mensah vs Attorney General, they will be in a hurry at their own peril because they must respect the provisions of the Constitution.”
The President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo released his list of deputy ministers on April 21, 2021
In all, there are 39 deputy ministers appointed under 24 portfolios and one Minister of State.
However, the Appointments Committee of Parliament is yet to vet the President’s nominees.
The scheduled public hearing from  Wednesday, June 2, which would end on Tuesday, June 15, will begin at 10:00 am each day.
The Appointments Committee has, consequently, invited Memoranda on the nominees from the public for consideration.
They are to reach the Clerk of the Committee not later than Monday, 24th May, through the address: The Clerk, Appointments Committee, Parliament House, Accra, attentioned to Mrs. Rosemary Sarkodie.

The Domestic Violence and Victim Support Unit (DOVVSU) of the Kasoa Divisional Police Command, has arrested a 52-year-old man for allegedly defiling his 10-year-old step-daughter at Kakraba in the Central Region.
According to the police, the suspect, Ebenezer Atobi Asante, started dating the victim’s mother some three years ago when her father died under mysterious circumstances.
In an interview with Adom News, Kasoa DOVVSU Commander, ASP Dories Larye Aggrey said, the mother of the victim asked her daughter to live with the suspect when their friendship became intimate.
ASP Larye said the suspect was sharing the same double-bed with the victim and that is how the man got the opportunity to take advantage of the young girl.
She added that he defiled her several times. ASP Larye said in view of the trauma the 10-year-old has endured over the period, a Psychologist has been engaged to counsel her.
Meanwhile, the suspect, Ebenezer has been arraigned before court for prosecution.

Vice President Dr. Bawumia gave an insight into the Akufo-Addo government’s approach to national development when he addressed the chiefs and people of the Essikado Traditional Area in the Western region at the climax of this year’s Kuntum Festival on Saturday 4th August, 2018.

“We have not really benefited from the extraction of our natural resources, and it is for this reason that we need especially in the area of our minerals, to bring a new paradigm, a new thinking into how as a country we can benefit more from our mineral resources,” the Vice President noted.

“There are many mines that are operating and for years, they tell us they have not made any profit so they cannot pay any dividend to government. But they keep mining and mining. How can you as a business continue to be in existence for so long and claim you are not making profit and so you cannot pay. There are some mines that are paying, but many are not paying sufficiently, relative to how much they are taking out of our country.”

Vice President Bawumia indicated that a new fiscal regime similar to the one prevailing in the oil sector would soon be introduced in the mining sector.

“We have a regime that we are implementing for the oil sector, and we want to implement the same regime for the mining sector. So when you take your gold out of the soil, if you take a 1000 tonnes, you will have to pay us our share out of that. We will not wait for you to go and say you have not made any profit out of the 1000 so you will not pay us anything. You will have to pay us something commensurate to what you have taken out.”

The Vice President assured the investor community that while Government welcomes foreign direct investment, such investment would have to be a partnership that was beneficial to all parties.

“We want foreign investment, there is no doubt about that. Our lawyers will say we have given them an invitation to treat. But that invitation to treat must not be an invitation to cheat. We want partnerships, and that is why we want a new regime in the mining sector, so that everyone will pay their share.”

This new thinking, the Vice President emphasised, was the guiding principle behind the decision to leverage a fraction of Ghana’s vast bauxite deposits to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium industry.

“We have decided that we are not going to allow what has happened to gold and manganese to happen with bauxite. Parliament just passed the Ghana Integrated Bauxite Authority Bill. We are forming this corporation, and will be forming partnerships with anybody who comes, a joint venture, to build an integrated bauxite and aluminium industry.


“We don’t want the raw bauxite being taken out of Ghana anymore. We will build a refinery here to refine the bauxite to alumina, take it to VALCO, and get aluminium and you will see the massive increase in value. This is going to be transformational,” the Vice President stated.

Vice President Bawumia commended the Omanhene of Essikado Traditional Area, Nana Kwabena Nketsiah V for his “continuous drive and contribution towards a better Ghanaian society for all”.

“Nana is indeed a true chip off the old block” Dr Bawumia declared, and called for the sustenance of the peace and unity enjoyed by the people of Essikado and the nation as a whole.


The South Tongu District Director of Agriculture, Ernest Quansah, has called on government to urgently ban the reckless acquisition of lands along river banks by private investors.

He said this has become necessary to improve access to fresh water bodies for irrigated farming and other agricultural purposes.

Mr Quansah made the call during his turn at the Assembly’s Town Hall Meeting at Sogakope.


Chelsea midfielder Willian has committed his future to the club, saying he has always been "very happy" at Stamford Bridge.

The 29-year-old has caught the attention of several of Europe's largest clubs this summer, including Barcelona and Manchester United.

The Spanish giants are understood to have had three bids for Willian turned down by Chelsea, while he was also believed to be high up Jose Mourinho's list of targets in this window.

The interest in Willian came after his relationship with previous Chelsea head coach Antonio Conte broke down.

However, he says he has spoken to Conte's replacement, Maurizio Sarri, and reassured him he wants to be part of his plans this season.

Speaking after Chelsea's 2-0 defeat to Manchester City in the Community Shield, Willian said: "I've always made it very clear that I've always been very happy playing for Chelsea. I never said that I want to leave the club.

"This is a new era, with a new manager and I've had a very good conversation with him, so I hope we can enjoy a lot of victories."

Chelsea were unimpressive in defeat at Wembley on Sunday, but Willian says the team will need time to adapt to Sarri's new way or working.

"Without doubt, we all like this style of play, all the players," he said. "We have to do all we can to keep improving.

"Of course, the beginning is always a little more difficult to adapt to a new style of play, which changes everything, but we have everything we need to improve, to continue working and start the season well."


President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has allayed fears that, the double in track system will destroy the education system as being speculated by a cross section of the Public.

Speaking at this year's Asafotufiami of the people of Ada, president Akufo-Addo said, the new system will rather reduce class size, increase teaching hours and number of holidays among others.

According to President Akufo-Addo, the double track system will not be applicable in all Senior High Schools but in schools facing infrastructure challenges due to a large number of students admitted under the free SHS programme.

President Akufo-Addo in September last year launched the Free Senior High school, (SHS), policy which provided 90 thousand more students gain access to Senior High school.

This year, it is estimated that an additional 180 thousand more children will be admitted into SHS.

Despite existing infrastructural deficit, government has made it a point to allow all qualified students to made it to Senior High school.

The government has therefore introduced the double intake system to accommodate the overflow.

President Akufo-Addo acknowledged that the implementation of any new policy is likely to face challenges.

But government will revolve these challenges and will not back down on the policy. He called for support from the Public as the new policy is rolled out.

The new programme creates a calendar of two semesters in a year for the SHS 1 class, containing 81 days per each semester and 41 days of vacation for a sandwich class.

Over 8,000 teachers are being recruited to handle the sandwich classes. Under the new system, teaching hours are increased from six hours per day to eight hours per day.


Ghana’s out of pocket expenditure per capita decreased from 38 Dollars in 2010 to 25 Dollars in 2015. That's according to the NHIS's Upper West Regional Director, Abass Suleymana.

Financial sustainability, identification of the poor and vulnerable, delaysin reimbursing service providers due to huge volumes and values of claims, compromised quality of care, illegal charges to insured members as well as delays in the submission of claims have been identified as some of the challenges of the National Health Insurance Scheme.

Mr. Suleymana outlined some efficiency measures being rolled out to up thegame in service delivery.

To this end, the scheme will ensure financial sustainability of the scheme through innovative efficiency measures which include: Proposed additional funding sources; digitization of membership registrations and renewals; rolling out electronic-claim nationwide; strengthening quality assurance and financial auditing for improved accountability to the public as well as the review of the current law to introduce measures that allows stiffer sanctions to reduce fraud and other malfeasance to serve asa deterrent to criminal minds.

In the Upper West Region, the Wa Municipality has the highest coverage of 71 % in terms of active members as at June 2018 whilst Wa East District has the lowest of 32%.


Financial analysts on GBC's Current Affairs Programme ‘Talking point’ have urged the Central Bank to put in place strict directives and measures to prevent recurrence of liquidation in the financial sector.

The analysts are of the view that such measures when applied should be followed to the letter to ensure compliance.

The panelists who commended the Central Banks move of merging five insolvent Banks said it is an innovative and efficient intervention.

The Bank of Ghana on Wednesday announced it has taken over Beige, Sovereign, Royal, Unibank and Construction banks and merged them into the Consolidated Bank Ghana Limited.

The closed banks were said to be facing liquidity challenges. Earlier this year, UT Bank and Capital Bank also faced the same liquidation problem.

Commenting, the MD of Stanbic Bank and President of the Ghana Bankers Association, Alhassan Andani said because the financial sector acts as a nerve of the economy, it is important that it is well managed.

Other areas of Ghana's economy such as manufacturing according to him must also be given the needed attention adding that auditors have a big role to play in the financial sector.

A Banking Consultant, Nana Otuo Acheampong said it is about time, premium was put on public financial literacy education, to guard against the collapse of the sector.

CEO of ZEEPAY, Andrew Takyi Appiah, on his part said the Central Bank should not relent on its efforts in enforcing its directives so as to bring sanity into the financial sector.


The National Labor Commission (NLC), is expected to meet the management of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital (KATH), the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists (GALMS), and the Health Ministry next week.
The meeting will seek to find an amicable solution to the stand-off over the posting of two hematologists to the laboratory service department of the Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital.
The Laboratory Scientists have been on a sit-down strike for close to a week now, in protest against the decision.
Authorities have resorted to other private laboratories to meet the needs of patients who require such services.
In an interview with Citi News, the Executive Secretary of NLC, Ofosu Asamoah, urged the members to resume work ahead of the meeting.
“The Ministry of Health was handling it earlier, so we were expecting that it would be solved by now. But as it stands, there is a need for us to step in. In the meantime, we want them to suspend the strike,” he stated.
Laboratory Scientists at KATH began a one-week sit-down strike last week to protest the posting of two medical officers to the Laboratory Services Directorate of the hospital.
Calls by the Ministry of Health and management of KATH for the scientists to resume work for dialogue to begin have yielded no results.
Meanwhile, the Ghana Association of Medical Laboratory Scientists has announced that the strike would be escalated nationwide from Wednesday, May 26, 2021.
Speaking to Citi News, the National Public Relations Officer of the Association, Dennis Adu-Gyasi, said the decision was taken at an emergency meeting with its members.
“What is happening at KATH is an affront on the practice of medical laboratory science in Ghana. The leadership of Komfo Anokye is not ready to give in to the request of the scientists over there, and it is still imposing the medical officers on the professionals. We think it is a matter that needs to be taken up at the national level.  We think that if by Wednesday nothing happens, we will take it [issue] up and escalate the industrial action on a national scale.”


Several officers at the Minerals Commission of Ghana have been transferred or reassigned to various regional and district offices across the country.
The move, according to Citi News sources at the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, is aimed at ensuring efficiency at the Commission.
The shake-up is part of ongoing reforms to decentralize the licensing regime and enhance monitoring of mining operations.
The Commission is also hiring additional mining engineers to strengthen compliance with the health and safety rules of mining activities.
It has also embarked on a digitization exercise to streamline all of its data records and plans to transition to an entirely online system within the next three to six months. This will significantly reduce delays in the licensing process and will eliminate the paper application, with all clients expected to complete applications online.
Additionally, some employees are being trained in critical areas such as mineral economics, metal finance, ventilation, and geotechnical engineering to improve their skills and knowledge.
All these come at a time the government has renewed the fight against all forms of illegal mining to protect the country’s forest reserves and rivers.


Ever since international gold trading started over 400 years ago in the ‘Gold Coast’ at ‘El Mina’ has the winning of the precious metal become an existentialist threat like now. To save this nation,Government is being compelled to resort to radical measures, including burning equipment found near river bodies and in forest reserves.
Strong arguments against outright destruction through burning include illegality of burning, indiscriminate approach impacting legal miners and impunity of Government. Moreover, burning equipment is an expensive waste and has failed before and that rather, equipment should be seized, processed through court and used for other productive purposes by needy state institutions. Also, using the military as the primary enforcement agent is wrong. It should be police.
Attractive as these arguments are, the lived reality is one of genuine challenges to regulation and enforcement. State capacity, reflected in its footprint in terms of mining regulations management and enforcement, reach of courts, policing, advocacy and self-restraint through representative associations, have fallen short of curbing the menace. The Government needs precious time to retool regulations and bring responsible mining on stream. In the interim, irresponsible mining must be stopped from completely spiralling out of control.
And that is why it is necessary to burn stray equipment once and for all to deter repetitive destructive behaviour. The state is enforcing through burning because it must necessarily do so if it is to turn the tide in the short term whilst strengthening traditional regulatory measures in the medium to long term. As has often been repeated by H.E the President, he does not intend to stop the age old business of artisanal mining but its highly destructive modern version must necessarily be stopped with all the authority and force the state commands.
‘Necessity’is a legal construct which presumes acting beyond existing law in the interest of protecting a larger public interest. Glanville Williams says;
“By necessity is meant the assertion that conduct promotes some value higher than the value of literal compliance with the law”
Judges sometimes refer to it as justification. The key argument is that extraordinary measures overriding current legal rights are permissible if the intent and action is in the line of duty and will preserve larger public interests.
As a judicial officer of well over forty years standing, H.E the President is keenly aware of our capacities and what must be done to bring us up to speed. This is what he said in September 2018 to the Ghana Bar Association gathered in conference;
“… I began this address by indicating that I wanted us to be frank in our discussions about ourselves and about our conduct in the practice of our profession. 
Our nation has had a lot of difficulties with our politics and governance structures, but for the past 25 years we have had a stable political system. We have had regular elections and sitting governments have been defeated, and there have been peaceful transfers of power. 
We are making progress in our economic sectors also, but we need to do even more to meet the aspirations of our young and growing population, and feature among the leading lights of the world. 
One apparent restraint to our progress, what we may term the missing link in our governance system, which hampers the rapid economic development we seek, is the deficit in the application of the rule of law. 
It affects everyday life. It is about breaking rules and regulations in many aspects of our lives, and wanting to, and, indeed, circumventing the laws that are meant to guide our society. 
It has to do with driving recklessly, and breaking all the traffic regulations and trying to bribe the police when you are pulled up. It has to do with not getting the proper permit to build a house, and it has to do with looking the other way when something wrong is going on. 
It has to do with sharp practice and unethical behaviour by some lawyers, which jeopardise the administration of justice and the interests of ordinary people. It has to do with judicial corruption, which, a priori, constitutes a violation of the judicial oath.
It has to do with the degradation of our environment and the pollution of the atmosphere and of our water bodies. It has to do with petty bribery and corruption, and it has to do with bribery and corruption on a grand scale. 
…I invite you to see and appreciate that many of the problems that plague our country have something to do with the mal-functioning of the law. 
Many a bad headline can be traced to a law and order problem. In our country, currently, the problems confronting our banking sector are dominating the headlines, as they should. The story of every bank that has had problems, be they indigenous Ghanaian banks or international banks, like Barings Bank, Lehman Brothers, Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI), each one can be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or trying to cut corners by flouting regulations. The effects of these acts of lawlessness have been, invariably, the loss, and threat of loss, of innocent depositors’ savings and jobs. 
When a building being constructed collapses and lives are lost, the cause can, in many cases, be traced to someone or some people breaking the law, or cutting corners. When a road that was built barely a year ago develops potholes, someone or some people have been breaking the law or cutting corners. The story of environmental degradation occasioned by illegal mining, what we call galamsey, is a clear case of people breaking the law. 
We, who are gathered in this room, know the law, which is the foundation of law and order, and the foundation of every organised and progressive society. Our work matters. It affects profoundly the ordering of the state. Promotion of the rule of law is at the heart of this Association’s vocation. Its members must be the natural champions of a law-based state, whose establishments should be solid enough to sanction effectively vigilantism, bank frauds, cyber frauds, sharp practice, illegal mining, unlawful exports of fertilisers and oil products, identity thefts, stealing of public funds, bribery and corruption, criminal cartels, and criminal behaviour in general. ….
So, let us be up and doing. Let us put our shoulders to the wheel so that future generations will appreciate our contribution to the making of a successful, democratic Ghana, which guarantees the liberties of our people, the institutions of good governance, the cohesion of our society, the well-being of the masses, and the peace, prosperity and unity of our nation.”
The President is being accused of impunity for trying hard to enforce rules that people routinely ignore. Yet, this is the President who has opened up the most space in the political governance arena. He is a known advocate of media rights, representing journalists in court, helping repeal criminal libel, passing Right to Information legislation and speaking to the Press regularly. He has overseen an explosion in social media-attracting both Google and Twitter. Nana Addo does not have the right, authority, capacity or inclination to stop the media from doing its legitimate work. All he wants is mutual responsibility and accountability for our actions. He will not shy away from that. The media ought not to appear to be a den of impunity. Indeed, no institution of state ought to be above lawful enquiry, as Rule of Law demands.
He has resolutely tackled political violence, taking the unprecedented steps of not only setting up a Commission after the Ayawaso West Wuogon election, but also encouraging the two major parties to dialogue face to face and then passing anti-violence legislation the success of which was more than evident in the 2020 Elections. Indeed, his tolerance for political debate was on show in the nearly two years of NDC protests against the EC and then he quietly set a great record by supporting the entire election budget from Government resources.
His political equanimity is evident in his relations with the current Parliament, especially Rt. Hon Speaker. He has quickly accepted the verdict of Ghana to work together and is doing so.
Significantly, he has also set up the most empowered institution to deal with political impunity. With our goodwill, The Office of the Special Prosecutor (OSP) will perhaps be the most enduring legacy of President Akufo-Addo, rivalling the mass spread of literacy that the educational reforms will bring.
In conclusion, the lack of self-restraint within the general populace, if not addressed resolutely, will overwhelm every progressive initiative of Government. The Hon. Greater Accra Regional Minister, embarks on a major clean up in response to our own complaints about a clean Accra and immediately, his methods, some of which are necessary, are questioned when the affected people are mostly breaking the law and rules with impunity.
There will be innocent victims. Those exceptions must be entitled to address their grievance in the context of the state institutions of redress, especially the judicial process. But the likelihood of innocent victims ought not to stop the state from exerting its authority in the interest of preserving our common heritage, be it in the cleaning of Accra or battling galamsey.


A joint operation by the counter-terrorism unit of the Ghana Police Service in the Northern Region led to the arrest of two people with an AK-47 rifle and pump-action guns in Tamale.
According to the Police, the suspects were allegedly planning to clash with an opposing faction in a chieftaincy dispute in the village of Bagliga Dakpem-Yili.
The Deputy Northern Region Police Commander, DSP Moses Atibilla, said they had been “terrorizing innocent citizens in Tamale here.”
On the AK-47 that was retrieved, the police suspect that it was a police weapon.
“The registration number of the AK-47 that was taken from the people had been erased, but it is suspected that this weapon may be police property,” DSP Moses Atibilla said.
A bulletproof vest was also retrieved from the suspects upon a search of their car. The police say their investigations indicate that the suspects were recruited by Yepalisi Naa, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, to escort a newly installed chief from Banvim to the Bagliga community.
The two have been remanded by the court, whereas a third suspect, Alhaji Aminu Ayuba, the Yepalisi Chief, has been granted a police enquiry bail of GHS 200,000 and will reappear on May 31, 2021.


The Ghana Statistical Service says it is collaborating with the Ghana Health Service to vaccinate about 85,000 field officials who will be involved in the 2021 Population and Housing Census, before the start of the exercise.
The vaccination exercise is scheduled to take place from the 31st of May to 8th of June 2021.
At a press briefing on Sunday, Government Statistician, Professor Samuel Kakraba Annim, said the Service is taking all the necessary steps to ensure the safe conduct of the exercise.
“I will mention to all persons in Ghana that we are taking all the necessary steps to ensure that the census adheres to the strict protocols of COVID-19. What are some of the things we are doing? We have already engaged with the Ministry of Health through the Ghana Health Service, and they had an engagement with Dr. Anthony Nsiah Asare, who is the Presidential Advisor on Health, and a confirmation has been given that all 85,000 officials that we are going to engage from the beginning of 31st May 2021, will be vaccinated. All our 85,000 supervisors will go through the exercise.”
The 2021 Population and Housing Census (PHC), with the slogan, ‘You Count, Get Counted’, will provide the opportunity for the country to gather credible and comprehensive data on the citizenry towards transforming the economy for sustainable development.
The census was originally scheduled for 2020, but will now take place from the 27th of June 2021.
The GSS is the lead agency for the conduct of the Census and has divided the country into 51,921 enumeration areas to ensure easy collection of geospatial data across the 260 metropolitan, municipal, and district assemblies.
This year’s census will be the sixth conducted in Ghana since the post-independence era.
The country conducted a National Census in 1960, 1970, 1984, 2000, and 2010.
Ghana’s population has since moved from 6.7 million in 1960 to 24.6 million in 2010, and currently estimated at 30 million.


The Ghana Armed Forces (GAF) has expressed concern about the high number of excavators parked in mining communities.
According to the Chief of Defence Staff, Vice Admiral Seth Amoama, over seven hundred excavators believed to have been moved from mining sites are likely to be taken back to mining sites.
The government in its efforts to fight illegal mining launched the third phase of the new ‘Operation Halt’.
This involves the use of the military to destroy all mining equipment at illegal mining sites and also apprehend illegal miners.
In his address to some personnel during his visit to some illegal mining sites, the Chief of Defence Staff noted that the illegal miners now mine at night under the protection of heavily armed men.
He however indicated that his personnel will adjust their operations to apprehend the miners.
“What is disturbing is that the excavators that have been taken from the mining sites are packed in towns, villages and by roadsides in clusters of 10 to 20, and there is a very high tendency that these excavators will find their way back to the galamsey sites during the night when our operations halt.”
The GAF has said its officers, deployed to curb illegal mining on water bodies and in forest reserves, will not hesitate to destroy all equipment found at illegal mining sites.
It said visits by military personnel tasked to stop illegal mining activities, had shown that “there were still some illegal mining activities going on in some of the areas that had hitherto been cleared by Operation Halt II”.
“These illegal activities were mostly being done in the night or under the cover of darkness protected by armed guards, as used cartridges were found at the sites. The Operation Halt II patrol that accompanies the team was ordered to destroy logistics found in these areas,” the statement added.
Recently, the Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul, warned illegal miners working at night that they do so at their own risk.
He noted that, during the different phases of ‘Operation Halt’, some miners were found to be carrying out their activities at night.
At a press briefing in Accra on Wednesday, Dominic Nitiwul said the military has been equipped to deal with such recalcitrant miners.
“We know that they do that from 9:00pm to 4:00am. That’s how brave they are. We know, and we know the towns they are doing it in, so we will come after you. Don’t try it,” Mr. Nitiwul warned.
“So if you go out there to mine, I cannot guarantee your safety when the soldiers are going to apprehend you. So I will advise you to not go out. It is not worth it.”



The Deputy Director of Public Health (DDPH) in the Ashanti Region, Dr. Michael Rockson Adjei, has emphasized that Larval Source Management (LSM), is a crucial malaria control intervention.
He has therefore advised Ghanaians to embrace this measure when its implementation begins.
Dr. Adjei made the statement while speaking to journalists at the end of a one-day LSM training session held for health workers in Kumasi in the Ashanti Region, on Friday, May 21, 2021.
The training, which took place in Kumasi, was organised by Zoomlion Ghana Limited (ZGL) in partnership with the Ghana Health Service (GHS) under its National Malaria Control Programme (NAMCOP) and Noguchi Memorial Institute for Medical Research (NMIMR).
It brought together 160 health workers from 18 districts in the region with Obuasi serving as the main hub for the programme.
The districts are Asokore Mampong, Asokwa, Ashanti Mampong Municipal, Kwabre East, Ejisu, Old Tafo, Manhyia North, Manhyia South, Atwima Mponua, Atwima Nwabiagya, Atwima Kwanwoma, Sekyere East, Kwadaso, Bosomtwe, Suame, Bekwai, Oforikrom and Offinso.
Dr. Adjei explained that LSM was basically to control the vector that carries the malaria parasite.
“It is also to ensure how to control the anopheles mosquito in limiting the number of vectors.”
This intervention, he further noted, will help decrease the number of malaria cases, “we see at a particular time or in a month.”
He said the application of larvicide was done at various mosquito breeding sites that could be dredged.
“For example, you may have a very big water body like a lake that we cannot readily drain or even a marshy area that serves as a source or breeding site for mosquitoes,” he added.
According to him, the application of larvicide is crucial in fighting the development state of the vector. He added that “it will enable us to reduce the population of mosquitoes.”
Dr. Adjei emphasized the need for intense collaboration between GHS, ZGL and the communities.
Ashanti Regional Environmental Health Officer, Mr. Don Awantungo, who was satisfied with the session, said the LSM training will help in controlling malaria cases in the region.
“In fact, this particular programme would help so much in tackling mosquitoes from the larvae stage,” he said.
He, therefore, commended the organizers for putting together the training programme, pointing out that “we need to equip field workers so that they can do their work well.”
The Zoomlion General Manager for Ashanti East, Franklin Ofori Akuffo, indicated that LSM was one of the best interventions in the control of malaria.
He reiterated his outfit’s commitment to supporting the government in its efforts to improve the lot of the citizenry.
“I encourage our workers to give in their best because at the end of the day they are going to pay for whatever they are doing. And once you have been paid for it, we need to go out there and do our best so that the programme would be a success.”

A 48-year-old mason has been sentenced to 15 years in prison for defiling a four-year-old girl at Odorkor in Accra.
Akwesi Yeboah pleaded not guilty to the charge of defilement, but was found guilty by the Accra Circuit Court, presided over by Ms. Christiana Cann, after a full trial.
The court was told that Yeboah applied a cream into the girl’s vagina, which gave her a burning sensation, after which she inserted his finger into her and defiled her.
The facts, as presented by the prosecutor, Chief Inspector Kofi Atimbire, were that on April 16, 2018, around 7: 30 p.m, the victim’s parents started looking for her when it dawned on them that she was not around, and nobody knew her whereabouts.
During the search, the father saw her emerge from the room of the accused crying, with her dress wet and the zip opened.
The prosecutor said the father questioned her about why she was crying, and she disclosed that Yeboah called her to come for money to buy biscuits, revealing that “when she followed him to his room, Yeboah put her on his bed and inserted his penis into her vagina”.
The father, according to the prosecution, asked his wife to check what was wrong with the victim, and she confirmed that her daughter was bleeding and also smelled of Robb ointment in her private parts.
he prosecutor said a complaint was lodged with the Domestic Violence and Victim Support Unit of the Police Service at Odorkor, where a medical report form was issued to the complainant, the father, to send the victim to the hospital.
Yeboah was subsequently arrested and arraigned.

The Indian High Commissioner to Ghana, H.E Sugandh Rajaram, is scheduled to pay an official visit to Yendi on 25th May 2021 as part of his diplomatic overtures to strengthen ties between India and the people of Yendi.
This reciprocal visit follows on the heels of an earlier visit by Mr. Farouk Aliu Mahama, MP for Yendi to the Indian High Commissioner, to discuss issues of mutual concern, particularly the Yendi Water Project and other investment opportunities.
At that meeting on April 12, 2021, at the Indian High Commission in Accra, the High Commissioner, Mr. Rajaram expressed his desire to visit Yendi saying “it will be exciting and great for India to collaborate with the people of Yendi in areas of skills training, information, technology, and medicine,”.
He promised to visit the ancient town as soon as possible to strengthen the relationship.
This planned visit on Tuesday, 25th May, is in fulfillment of his pledge
As part of his visit, the High Commissioner and the MP shall pay a courtesy call on the Yaa-Naa, and also hold crunch meeting with the MP and other dignitaries, and visit the Yendi Water Project site.
It is instructive to note that the $30 million Yendi Water Project is funded by a facility from the Indian Exim Bank, and it is being executed by WAPCOS, an Indian civil engineering/consultancy firm.


The second phase of Ghana’s COVID-19 vaccination exercise has started across the country but with incidents of undue delays at various centers.
Citi News‘ checks at some centers revealed that although many people turned up very early in the morning, as early as 4:00 am, they had not been served as at 10:00am.
Some of those who spoke to Citi News said the vaccines did not arrive until almost midday.
“I was here around 5.30am. It is almost 12:00pm, and I have just got vaccinated. Those of us who came here were asked to write our names and form the queue so that we will be served in that order. Shortly after they begun, we realized that the list had been replaced with another one that had other people. This angered many of us, and it generated a lot of confusion. Those in charge of the exercise haven’t done well,” an elderly man who got his second jab at the Legon Hospital told Citi News.
Another woman at the Adabraka Polyclinic said, “I fall in the category. I was called on phone. Since we got here, nobody has been attended to. Nobody is talking to us. They should have told us that when we get here, we need to go for re-registration. They should have done that.”
Only persons who took their first COVID-19 jab between1st and 9th March 2021, are eligible for the second jab currently being administered.
A total of 360,000 persons in 43 districts of the country, 25 in the Greater Accra Region, 16 in the Ashanti Region and two in the Central Region, have been targeted to receive their second doses in this new exercise.
Over 852,000 have so far received the first jab in the first phase of the vaccination exercise.


Ghana’s President, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, has expressed profound commiserations to the Federal Republic of Nigeria following the unfortunate passing of its Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and several others.
President Akufo-Addo on behalf of the government of Ghana and Ghanaians sympathized with Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari and the rest of the population over Lt. Gen. Attahiru’s death and that of seven other officials.
In a post on social media, President Akufo-Addo said:
“I express the deep condolences of the government and people of Ghana and of myself personally to President Buhari and the government and the people of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on the shocking, tragic deaths of Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru.”
“Our hearts go out to their families and may their souls rest in perfect peace”, Akufo-Addo tweeted.
Lt-Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, was killed after a military Beachcraft 350 aircraft crashed in the north-western state of Kaduna on Friday, May 21, 2021.
The incident happened as the plane was trying to land in bad weather, the military said.
Ten other officers, including the plane’s crew, also died.
President Muhammadu Buhari has said he is“deeply saddened” by the crash.
Gen. Attahiru, 54, only took up his post in January in an overhaul of the military’s top brass.
It was part of the government’s plan to boost the military’s efficiency in fighting a more than decade-long jihadist insurgency.
The Nigerian Air Force said the incident happened as the plane was landing at Kaduna International Airport.
On Twitter, President Buhari said the crash was a “mortal blow… at a time our armed forces are poised to end the security challenges facing the country”.
The crash comes three months to the day after a Nigerian military plane crashed short of a runway in the capital Abuja, killing all seven people on board.
The Vice Chancellor of the University for Development Studies (UDS), Prof Gabriel Ayum Teye says “reports reaching his office indicate that some supervisors hardly give quality guidance to the students assigned to them and this does not help in the production of quality thesis.”

The complaint has also featured prominently lately in the reports of external examiners.

Prof. Teye has therefore warned such supervisors that his administration will not tolerate the “attitude”.

He was however, quick to add that there are a lot of serious minded supervisors in the university community and urged them to keep up.

The Vice Chancellor expressed the sentiments the in a speech read for him by the Principal of the Wa Campus of UDS, Prof. Sylvester Z. Galaa at the matriculation of graduate students pursuing sandwich programs in Wa.

In this piece, correspondent Emmanuel Mensah-Abludo says the students at the Wa campus are pursuing their courses at the Faculty of Integrated Development Studies, School of Business and Law as well as the Faculty of Planning and Land Management.

The Vice Chancellor of UDS, Prof Teye equally requested all heads of departments to make use of plagiarism software known as “Turn-it-in” acquired by the University to improve the originality of all research work.

The University challenged those pursuing sandwich programs to make use of library facilities and electronic-resources at their disposal else, they will end up leaving the institution academically ignorant thereby not developing the critical analytical skills for situations.

Prof. Galaa conferred a full junior membership on the students and advised them sign the Matriculation Register, saying: “You should note that failure to sign the Register implies that you would forfeit the admission into this University for this academic year. I must observe that graduate students in the past have taken this requirement for granted and I wish to direct the Registrar toinvoke the needed sanctions for students who willfully ignore this important prerequisite as part of the admission.”

The gathering was told that distance courses have been started for candidates in remote districts who hardly get opportunity to upgrade themselves and that the initiative is aimed at widening the university’s coverage to allow teachers and other workers in “distant communities” to obtain qualifications that are relevant to their career objectives.

The Minister of Roads and Highways has revealed that President Akufo-Addo was on the verge of weeping when he travelled on the Hamile road in the Upper West Region, sometime ago.
According to Kwesi Amoako-Attah, the Hamile road was in such a terrible state that travelling on it with the President was near impossibility.
But he said that President Akufo-Addo immediately directed him to, as a matter of urgency, ensure the road is constructed.
Speaking at a press briefing in Accra on Sunday, May 23, 2021, on measures the government is taking to improve Ghana’s road network, the sector Minister indicated that the Hamile road has now been asphalted.
“After driving on the Hamile road, terrible road, when we sat down, President beckoned me. He said, Minister, did you see the road we travelled on, the towns, and the conditions of the people? The President said, when I was in my car, I felt like weeping when we were driving on that road.”
“This is the President of the Republic. He said that is why anywhere we go, I don’t want to go with a helicopter. I want to experience and I want to drive on the roads. The President of the Republic said I felt like weeping. He then directed me to work on the road. Today, my engineers are here, that road to Hamile is done and brought to a bituminous level” he said.
Mr Amoako-Attah indicated that the government is seriously constructing and fixing deplorable roads across the country.
He further explained that Ghana’s roads would not have been in their current state if previous governments had tackled the road sector in a serious and robust manner like the way President Akufo-Addo’s administration is doing.
The Roads and Highways Minister said that President Akufo-Addo’s second term is projecting to complete 6,000 kilometers out of 11,000 kilometers of roads.
Mr Amoako-Atta stated that the 6,000 kilometres of roads to be completed falls under critical, cocoa, town roads and asphalt overlays, and the Sinohydro Master Project Support Facility.
On the critical roads programme, the Minister said part of the roads to be completed are; Navrongo to Naga stretch the Wa to Bulenga to Yaala road, Salaga to Ekumdipe to Kpandai road which is 60% complete, upgrading of Yagaba to Mankarigu road as well as the upgrading of Daboya to Mankarigu road among hosts of road projects
Mr Amoako-Attah said that government has never and cannot promise to fix all of Ghana’s roads within a four-year period.
He, however, indicated that government will remain focused on delivering on its mandate and will not be intimidated.

The Ghana Mine Workers’ Union has called for a full-scale tripartite (Government, the Ghana Chamber of Mines, and Ghana Mineworkers’ Union) investigation into the frequent occurrences of mine accidents, for a more sustainable panacea to the issue.
The Union has also urged the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, and by extension the Minerals Commission and its Inspectorate Division, to as a matter of urgency conduct a thorough investigation into the recent underground accident that saw three of its valued members working in the same area trapped, out of which two managed to escape and one still missing since Tuesday May 18, 2021. 
“The Union will also want to use this opportunity to renew its call and advocacy on the need for government to prioritize the ratification of International Labour Organization Convention 176 (Safety and Health in the Mines Convention) in order to further tighten and align the industry’s health and safety regulatory framework to globally acceptable standards”, it said in a statement.
This is coming after AngloGold Ashanti announced the suspension of operations at its Obuasi mine, over a missing staff.
“Globally, activities around mining in general are risky but the level of risk exposure doubles when the operation is underground. It is against this backdrop that the industry is heavily regulated in terms of occupational health and safety standards and best practices”, it said.
Furthermore, it said “Ghana as a prominent hub of mining in Africa has not fared badly in regulating the formal subsector of its industry but in recent times, a notorious trend of mine accidents and incidents with its consequential fatalities happening in some of the underground operations, particularly AngloGold Ashanti, Obuasi Mine, and its surrogate Underground Mining Alliance that has claimed three precious lives since June 2020, are becoming a blot on the enviable record chalked up by Ghana, especially after the structural adjustment programme in the 80s”. As a trade union organization that has for 75 years sought the protection and welfare of workers in the industry, it said it takes an uncompromising opposition to these worrying and preventable fatalities that are shedding the blood of innocent workers in atonement for the profiteering motives of these multinational corporations. The union therefore pointed out that it will not countenance any more of these avoidable deaths and shall therefore not hesitate to withdraw its services if urgent and robust steps are not taken to eliminate and prevent these needless accidents from becoming a recurrent feature of the workplace.  AngloGold Ashanti reported last week “with deep regret”, that an employee of its mining contractor at the Obuasi Gold Mine in Ghana, is “missing after a fall of ground in one of the operation’s mining stopes”.
In a statement, the miner said the incident occurred on Tuesday morning and “immediately triggered a search and rescue effort”.
“The mine rescue teams have been working tirelessly in difficult geotechnical conditions in the immediate area, to locate our missing colleague”, AngloGold Ashanti said.

Unknown gunmen have shot to death, a headteacher in his home at Cape Coast in the Central Region.
The deceased, Yaw Eyifa Gorman, popularly known as Dr Sting, was shot in his car after he returned home from a training programme on Population Census
Narrating the incident to JoyNews, one of the deceased’s co-tenants said the incident which happened around 7:40 pm has brought fear into the house because the headmaster was shot on his own compound.
He stated that they heard the sound of the gun and rushed out to figure out what it was only to find their colleague had been shot.
“We were all in our room and we heard a loud noise ‘boom’. Some of us even thought it was a knockout.
“Then all of a sudden, we heard his wife screaming ‘Please someone should come and help me!’ So when we did, we saw his lifeless body in front of his steering wheel with blood in the car,” he told JoyNews.
The co-tenants described Mr Gorman as a very friendly and cordial person. Thus, were surprised by the incident.
“He has no issue with anybody in this house. This is disturbing and shocking, because it didn’t happen anywhere in town but right in his house and that is what we are afraid of.”
He then charged the police to hunt down the perpetrators and bring them to book.

The Member of Parliament for Pru East Dr. Kwabena Donkor has lamented the spate of robberies in his constituency.
According to him, although communities are in the area have long struggled with robberies, the situation appears to be getting out of control in recent times.
It comes on the back of the killing of a military officer in a highway robbery in the area on Saturday.
Speaking to Francis Abban on the Morning Starr Monday, the lawmaker said intelligence failure has led to the rise in crime in the area.
“I believe it’s an intelligence failure. We’ve had too many of this so the security officials have to up their game even though we appreciate what the IGP has done for us. That whole corridor is under threat. Economic activity is under threat. We are already starting from the bottom so if our effort is negated by crime, then we have a serious problem,” he said.
He noted efforts at addressing the crime situation in the area have been unsuccessful.
“They’ve even brought a regional patrol team to augment what we have but the situation is still there. I think unemployment and other factors are giving birth to this high-level rate of crimes and as a country, we are sitting on a timebomb”.
Similar incidents of robberies are happening across the country. In the Central region, a headmaster at Cape Coast was shot in front of his house on Saturday evening while returning from a meeting. In the Eastern region, robbers mounted roadblock on Monday dawn and robbed passengers plying that route. A passenger was shot in the attack.


The Ghana Revenue Authority (GRA) has given some Oil Marketing Companies including Santol Energy the green light to continue their operations nationwide.
According to the GRA, Santol Energy and a few others have satisfactorily met the requirements to proceed with their business.
The development comes as the GRA is clamping down on OMCs across the country that have not met relevant statutory requirements.
In an interview with Starr News, Chief Revenue Officer of the Debt Management Unit of the GRA Nathaniel Nii Okai Tetteh said companies who are still facing regulatory sanctions have been given a window to redeem themselves.
“What I’m saying is as at now, it seems there has been a satisfactory arrangement between the company (Santol) and then the authority [commisioner general]. So, for today, I can say their status has changed…. There has been a satisfactory arrangement with commissioner-general.”
He added, “as at this morning, Santol Energy’s assets have been released and they are working “.


An Economist at the University of Ghana Business School, Dr Lord Mensah, says Ghana’s economy has been in distress since 2017 adding that the government must reduce its appetite for borrowing from the local market.
Speaking on the Morning Starr on Monday, May 10, Dr Mensah said the government must also restructure its policies and put in place policies that will engage the private sector to help revive the economy. “The economy has been hanging, and it’s been hanging for the past four years. And it has to do at the macro level. For now, what is going to happen is that gov’t needs to restructure its policies and the policies should engage the private sector,” Dr Mensah said, adding, “the Government must reduce its appetite for borrowing from the local market.” 
Dr Mensah also wondered how the Akufo-Addo led government has borrowed so much with little to show for in terms of infrastructural development.
“In a situation where we’ve borrowed so much and you can’t see infrastructure to go with it, then it becomes a cause to worry. There’s no lender who’ll give you money for consumption so if we don’t see infrastructure to go with the monies borrowed, then it’s been used for something else.” His comments come after the Information Minister, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah said the Akufo-Addo government had to embark on extra borrowing in order to get the Ghanaian economy functioning despite the harsh impact of COVID-19.
He said the media must play a role in reminding Ghanaians about the devasting impact the pandemic has had on the world economy and the need to work with the government in finding solutions.
“We have to literally break the banks, borrowed money that we have never borrowed before, exceed some of the very fine statistical limits that we have put in place. We have to sacrifice all that so we can pump resources into ensuring that today you and I are still alive and we are not like India,” he told the media in Tamale.
He stressed: “Today you see a deficit of 11%, you see debt to GDP ratio over 70%, you see revenues are falling, you see expenditure is challenged. That is to be expected if we are going to sacrifice that to protect lives.”

The Ministry of Finance and the European Investment Bank have signed an agreement for the provision of a one hundred- and seventy-million-euro (€170 million) facility for the establishment of a new national bank, the Development Bank Ghana (DBG).
DBG is an integral feature of the GH¢100 billion Ghana Cares ‘Obaatampa’ Project, which will see the revitalization of the Ghanaian economy following the onset of COVID-19.
This event took place on Wednesday, 19th May 2021, when President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, held a meeting with the President of the European Investment Bank, Dr. Werner Hoyer, as part of his official visit to Belgium.
The €170 million facility, according to Dr. Hoyer, is the largest facility provided by the European Investment Bank for the establishment of a development bank in Africa or for any other project, for that matter, on the continent.
Speaking at the signing ceremony, President Akufo-Addo noted that “the Development Bank Ghana is going to play a very important part in the rapid economic transformation of Ghana, following the onset of COVID-19.”
According to him, “We want to restructure the economy and move it from being a mere producer and exporter of raw materials to one that places much greater emphasis on value addition activities. We see this Bank (DBG) as one that will play a pivotal role in this”.
The President indicated that the design and operation of the Bank, “which has been on the drawing board for the last two years”, will satisfy the highest standards, scrutiny and best practices of Development Banks across the world, assuring further that the €170 million facility from the EIB will be used for the purposes for which it was sought.”
President Akufo-Addo reiterated that the provision of this facility signals the determination of Ghana to continue partnering with the EU, with the President informing Dr. Hoyer that Ghana will fall on the EIB to continue to finance other projects in the pipeline, as the country works to recover from the impact of COVID-19.
The Minister of State-designate for Finance, Mr. Charles Adu Boahen, who was also present at the signing ceremony, explained that the focus of Government, since the onset of COVID-19, has been to put in place the building blocks for an inclusive and sustainable economic recovery.
“With the overall objective of creating a favourable environment to spur private sector-led growth, the Government of Ghana recognizes the importance of a substantial allocation of development capital to critical economic sectors at sustainable interest rates and longer tenures. Accordingly, there has been a heightened need to establish the Development Bank Ghana.
He stressed that the Development Bank Ghana will be a central player for Ghana’s economic recovery and structural transformation, “especially given the importance of counter-cyclical support in stimulating private enterprise.”
Dr. Hoyer, on his part, was confident that the establishment of Development Bank Ghana will help unlock opportunities for growth in Ghana, as well assist in the rapid recovery of the Ghanaian economy from the ravages of COVID-19.
He noted that the establishment of the Bank is in line with the objectives of the European Union, and will help develop Ghana’s private sector, agri-business, manufacturing and ICT initiatives.
Whilst describing the decision to establish DBG as “a wise one”, the EIB President added that the Bank sees the partnership with Ghana as a fruitful one, indicating that the EIB will follow keenly the development and workings of DBG in Ghana.



Former President John Mahama has withdrawn his acceptance of the African Union’s appointment as its High Representative for Somalia.
In a letter to the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, Mr. Mahama noted that “the high political importance of the proposed assignment requires that the High Representative enjoy the unalloyed support and co-operation of all political stakeholders.”
Mr. Mahama’s appointment as the AU envoy was welcomed by the Council of Presidential Candidates of Somalia, and the Coalition of Somalia’s Federal Member States. The appointment was however challenged by a section of the feuding faction in the troubled country.
Mr Mahama’s letter further cautioned the AU Chairperson, Moussa Faki Mahamat, that the lack of support by the Federal Government could “jeopardize the whole process and undermine the hopes that the entire world has in bringing peace to the esteemed land of Somalia,” a statement from the Office of the former President said.

Road contractors in the country have urged Roads and Highways Minister Kwesi Amoako-Atta to resort to the same passion with which he condemns bad roads in paying contractors for jobs done.
According to the contractors, getting paid for jobs done has become a difficult banter between them and the government leading to the death of some contractors.
It comes on the back of claims of the minister that government will be going hard on contractors in the coming weeks over shoddy jobs. He said the roads ministry is moving the defect liability period from 12 months to five years.
Reacting to the comment, the Chief Executive Officer of the Ghana Chamber of Construction Emmanuel Cherry said alot of roads would have been fixed by now if the government had followed agreements.
“We are now entering into the rainy season and as we speak a lot of construction has stalled. Some of the contractors have moved from sites because the contractual agreement hasn’t been met. If you want to see the efficiency of a Ghanaian contractor, payment has to be made. We are challenging the minister to pay us well and then we’ll provide the quality he wants. The passion and energy the minister spoke with yesterday, I love it but he should put that same passion into paying us,” he told Francis Abban on Morning Starr Monday. The contractor also bemoaned the challenge with political contractors in the construction chain.
“We have political contractors in our midst. A contract that’s supposed to go to tendering is given to a party person who knows nothing about construction. That is also part of having shoddy works”.
Meanwhile, government has earmarked 120 out of 200 programmed bridges in various part of the country for completion this year.
The Roads Minister made the disclosure at government’s press briefing in Accra on Sunday May 23, 2021. According to him, this forms part of government’s broader plan of improving the country’s road network and bring development close to Ghanaians. Part of the programmed bridges for construction Mr. Amoako-Atta said are 50 bridges under the Czech Bridges Programme of which “bridge components are being fabricated in Czech Republic with the arrival of 21 of them in the country pending the start of work.”
He also disclosed that among the 120 bridges is Dikpe, Iture and Ankobra Bridge, the Volivo cable stay bridge, Adawso to Ekyeamanfrom Bridge over the Volta in Afram Plains, 89 Mabey Bailey Bridges as well as the reconstruction of Buipe, Yapei and Daboya Bridges.
This he said the contract has been awarded with preliminary designs submitted pending approval for work to begin.

The Ghana Union of Traders Association (GUTA) at Kasoa in the Awutu Senya East District of the Central region has threatened to close down shops of foreign nationals engaged in retail businesses.
The group said the invasion of foreigners in retail business is collapsing their businesses.
General Secretary of GUTA at Kasoa, Bright Agyemang, who spoke to a section of the media expressed worry over the government’s inability to enforce the laws on foreign businesses in Ghana.
Speaking to Kasapa FM’s Central Regional Correspondent Yaw Boagyan, he said that their members of the association are furious and becoming impatient towards the continuous invasion of foreigners in the retail business. He said: “The foreigners have taken over our market that is why GUTA is complaining, they have taken over all across the country but as it is now, Kasoa is the strongest area for these foreigners.
“So we are praying to the government to come to our aid”
“The law says a foreigner cannot do retail except Ghanaians but the foreigners are doing retail in our markets and so we will close their shops. We will use the law we will enforce the law to close their shops”.


The Akuapem North Municipal Director of Education has assured students of the Akropong School for the blind that the concerns about their living conditions and treatment meted out to them by their headmistress will be addressed. The students accused the headmistress Mahela Narh of mismanagement leading to gradual collapse of the school and poor academics

Time and time again, we get to witness different regimes of governance after so many years but Ghanaians continue to be served with a high level of ineptitude and multiple cases of abandonment of government projects.
There has been a penchant for the total disregard for uncompleted projects in this country and we have seen one too many of these.
It appears a very critical technological intervention, an integrated ICT System which was unveiled by the Microfinance and Small Loans Centre (MASLOC) exactly a year ago has not seen the light of day.
As a matter of fact, this project has already turned into a Deja Vu and in complete limbo. Citizens are being bombarded with all kinds of government projects funded with and worth millions of dollars but these projects are wasted in spite of all the expertise at play.
This timely intervention by MASLOC was a brilliant concept meant to support the operations of MASLOC by processing loan disbursement digitally, increase access to their products and services, reduce the human interface in their operations and increase efficiency through enhanced performance.
The system was designed in a way that it came with the introduction of the MASLOC CARD for applications.
With this technology, applicants were expected to receive the results of their applications within 24 hours, with the card containing such vital information as the applicant’s Tax Identification Number, Ghana Post GPS address, and also useable on ATM machines.
But from recent developments at MASLOC, the project has been in limbo and nothing purposeful has come out of it.
MASLOC still resorts to the old system of applications coupled with a direct human interface in dealing with applicants and loan beneficiaries.
We are indeed compelled to ask some critical questions at this point.
What has led to the stalling of the MASLOC ICT Project?
Whose responsibility was it in ensuring that the new system worked to serve its purpose of investment?
After one year of the launch of the project, what are the authorities waiting to be fixed in order to make the ICT System fully operational?

Referee Sulemana Latif has been suspended from football related activities for the rest of the season for failing to award a clear penalty as well as other incorrect decisions in the Division One League match between Skyy FC and Pacific Heroes FC.
The Committee also handed Referee Selorm Kpormegbe a six-match suspension for his inability to whistle when an attacker was recklessly fouled in the Ghana Premier League match between Karela FC and Bechem United FC.
The Committee however exonerated Referee George Mawuli Vormawah for his performance in the Ghana Premier League match between Berekum Chelsea and WAFA.
In other decisions, the Review panel also highly commended Referee Rejoice Addokwei for her bold decision in the Women’s Premier League match between Supreme Ladies and Pearl Pia Ladies.
Referee Addokwei correctly ignored the assistant referee’s flag and ruled that a goal scored by Pearl Pia FC was perfect goal and not offside. The Committee however cautioned Assistant Referee 2, Gifty Doku to be conversant with the Laws of the Game.
Lastly the Match review panel exonerated the match officials from taking any wrongful decisions in the WPL game between Hasaacas and Soccer Intellectuals.


The Anti-galamsey military task force (Operation Halt) has reportedly returned to the mining site of the ruling New Patriotic Party, Women’s Organizer for the third time to burn a generator plant and a wooden office structure at the mining site.
The military also assaulted security men on duty.
“They returned on Saturday, sprinkled patrol on the generator plant, and around our office facility and set fire into them. They burnt everything in the room including the Television set, DSTV decoder and our personal belongings,” Nana Asante Boadi Yeboah Secretary at the mining site told Starr News.
He said, “the security men were deployed by the Company to protect the site so people don’t come around to steal but they were beaten by the military with the butt of the rifles”. Operation Halt taskforce on Sunday, May 16 2021, invaded the mining site of Kate Gyamfua at Akyem Pameng in Atew West District in the Eastern region and set ablaze eight excavators, a bulldozer and dozens of water pumping machines.
Three of the burnt excavators and a bulldozer were brand new being used for reclamation.
The military returned Monday, May 17, 2021, at about 4:00 pm to burn a faulty bulldozer that escaped their notice and large water pumping machines.
So far a total of nine excavators, two bulldozers, five smaller generators, a generator plant, 150 small pumping machines, 250 gallons of diesel have been burnt, the office structure and other items have been destroyed. Management of Xtra Gold Ghana Mining company under whose concession Kate Gyamfua was mining in her capacity as General Manager, has maintained that it is not operating illegally, that, it has all valid documents to mine.
However, the Defence Minister, Dominic Nitiwul, has explained that licensed mining companies will be treated as illegal miners if their activities pollute water bodies.
“What they did not know is that we are not touching the licenses. It is the illegalities we are touching. Our target was protecting water bodies and their tributaries, not your license.”
“You can have a license but if you were destroying the water bodies, the soldiers were supposed to make sure that they take out the equipment that you were using. So soldiers were not out to inspect licences,” the Minister explained at a press conference held in Accra on Wednesday, May 19, 2021. Mr. Nitiwul also defended the decision of the military to burn the mining equipment of miners operating illegally.
According to him, it wasn’t just the NPP executive’s company that had been affected by the work of the task force.
“Maybe because they [other mining companies] don’t have a political voice, they were not making noise. But their equipment was destroyed as well,”


The Headmistress of Seventh Day Adventist (SDA) Senior High School in Koforidua -Asokore in the Eastern Region is being investigated by the National Intelligent Bureau (NIB) for administrative infractions.
The Headmistress Mrs Naomi Abena Nyarkoa Yeboah Abasi has been accused of collecting feeding fees from students at her private hostel but feeds them with meals meant for boarding students. Dormitory infrastructural constraints in the school disabled the school from admitting hundreds of first-year students who wanted to be boarders.
Due to this, some teachers in the school as well as the headmistress have rented private apartments and converted them into private hostels to accommodate the students.
The Headmistress furnished her private hostel with students beds meant for the school.
She also takes Ghc200 as feeding fee from each student per month but feeds the students with meals allegedly prepared for boarding students.
During Starr News investigation into the matter, it came to light that, the National Intelligence Bureau (NIB) was also investigating same and had with immediate effect stopped the Headmistress from feeding the students from the school. The Headmistress, Naomi Nyarkoa Yeboah however explained that she established the private hostel due to parents insistence to get their wards who could not get boarding status and secured accommodation where they will be supervised.
She claimed, the feeding fees collected from the students were given to the matron of the school to buy food items to cook for the students in her private hostel.
The Headmistress also said the students bed were the excess beds which were packed under the mercy of the weather.
According to the headmistress, she acted in good faith to help the students especially the girls who were wandering in town in search of accommodation.
Meanwhile, the old students association are pursuing the Headmistress to render account on some alleged financial malfeasance. 
